<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.1.4" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8" />
<title>Parallel and Asyncronous Programming in C# using the System.Threading.Tasks</title>
<style type='text/css'>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
h1.title {
font-size: x-large;
margin-bottom: 1ex;
text-align: center;

}
div.standard {
margin-bottom: 2ex;
}
div.plain_layout {
text-align: left;

}
ol.enumerate {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 3ex;
text-align: left;

}
pre.listings {
font-family: monospace;
}


</style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="title"><a id='magicparlabel-525' />Parallel and Asyncronous Programming in C# using the System.Threading.Tasks</h1>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-1304' />(This article is a practical introduction to writing parallel code using Tasks in C#. For a more in-depth look at how Tasks are implemented in C#, please see (link to other article).</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-1309' />There are many ways to write parallel and asyncronous code in C#. One extremely convient method is using System.Threading.Tasks <a href="https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/system.threading.tasks.task(v=vs.110).aspx">MSDN Documentaion</a>. We will go over several examples and best practices when using Tasks so that we write good parallel code.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-709' />Simply put, a Task is an block of code which is run on its own thread and returns control to the calling program while it is running. The basic model is something like: This code does the following:</div>
<div class='float float-listings'><pre class ='listings'>using System.Threading.Tasks;

Task T = new Task( () =&gt; {/*Some block of code*/});
//Some other code
T.Start();
//Some more code</pre></div>


<ol class="enumerate"><a id='magicparlabel-717' /><li class="enumerate_item">Creates a new Task (but does not run it) named T which will run /*Some block of code*/ when it starts up.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Continues running //Some other code.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Starts running the Task T which will run all lines of code in /*Some block of code*/.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">Will continue running //Some more code while it waits on Task T to finish.</li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-942' />This is not the only way to use Tasks, however. There are many convient ways to start and interact with Tasks. One of th most common is the following:</div>


<div class='float float-listings'><pre class ='listings'>Task T = new Task.Factory.Start( () =&gt; {/*Some block of code*/});
//Some other code
T.Wait();
//Some more code</pre></div>


<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-827' />This differs from our first example in several ways:</div>

<ol class="enumerate"><a id='magicparlabel-1083' /><li class="enumerate_item">The Task T starts running /*Some block of code*/ immediatly. This just bundles up the creation of a new Task and the call to T.Start();</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">While //Some other code runs while the Task T is running on another thread, //Some more code must wait to run until the Task T is finished. This is of utmost importance if for instance //Some more code is repsonible for reporting the results of the Task T to the UI or providing them to antoher computation.</li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-1063' />Even though Tasks expose a convient and comprehenisble way to think about parallelism, there are several concerns of which me must take account. In this article we will talk about race conditions and deadlocks; and how to prevent them.</div>
</body>
</html>
